---
title: Backpacker
description:
  Backpacker is a revolutionary travel platform that transforms user reviews
  into valuable tokens while building a privacy-first recommendation system. By
  contributing authentic travel reviews, users earn our native tokens that
  unlock exclusive discounts with our partner network of hotels and airlines.
  What sets us apart is our innovative approach to AI - users' detailed feedback
  remains private on their devices, training local AI models that contribute to
  a global federated learning system. This decentralised intelligence powers our
  smart travel chatbot, delivering personalised itinerary recommendations
  without compromising user privacy. Through this unique ecosystem, we're
  creating a win-win environment where travelers are rewarded for their insights
  while helping build a more intelligent and personalised travel planning
  experience.
foundedOn: 2024-11-27
thumbnail: 'logo.jpg'
logo: 'logo.jpg'
tags:
  projectStage: Hackathon Project
  projectTypes:
    - Other
  languages:
    - JavaScript
    - TypeScript
  stacks_and_libraries:
    - Docker
    - Next.js
    - React.js
    - Node.js
    - wagmi.sh
    - MongoDB
    - TailwindCSS

links:
  github:
    - 'https://github.com/Risav03/backpacker'

team:
  - name: Raihan Khan
    discord: raihankhan
  - name: Sayak Sarkar
    discord: iamsayak
  - name: Risavdeb Patra
    discord: needleisbuilding
  - name: Soham Sengupta
    discord: pablo1106

related:
  - bugbuster
  - degenos
  - aiunited
---

## About Backpacker

Core Development Journey Backpacker was built using a modern web3 stack centered
around Next.js for our frontend and Node.js for backend operations. We chose
JavaScript as our primary programming language to maintain consistency across
the stack, while Solidity powers our smart contracts for NFT minting and rewards
distribution. This combination allows us to deliver a seamless user experience
while maintaining the decentralized nature of our platform.

## Key Partner Technologies and Their Impact

We integrated Storacha for IPFS file uploads, ensuring all review content and
media are stored in a decentralized manner Dynamic handles our user
authentication, significantly reducing the complexity of web3 onboarding and
making our platform accessible to non-crypto natives Blockchain Infrastructure

Flow blockchain was our choice for smart contract deployment due to its lower
gas fees and faster transaction speeds This decision proved crucial for making
our NFT rewards system economically viable for users AI and Communication

Cartesi powers our federated learning model deployment, enabling complex machine
learning operations in a decentralized environment XMTP integration drives our
chatbot functionality, leveraging their message kit for secure, decentralized
communications

## What's next

We aim to build out the federated learning system by introducing a more
sophisticated averaging model and make it run on mobile devices. We are working
on rebuilding the UI and bolstering the overall connective tissue of the project
by improving the integration of the chatbot and the underlying model. I believe
this is the future of travel and a good showcase of how large AI systems can be
built today without compromising on the fundamental tenets of user privacy and
security.
