---
title: AI-Powered System for Detecting License Plates of Vehicles in Infraction
description:
  The AI License plate violation detector (Whistleblower) dApp is a
  revolutionary application leveraging chain-verifiable image recognition
  powered by AI algorithms.  Spearheaded by Think and Dev, a leading technology
  company specializing in blockchain and AI development, the project is part of
  Cartesi's grants program and focuses on revolutionizing real-time traffic
  violation detection through decentralized application (dApp) implementation.
lastUpdated: Mar 27, 2024
thumbnail: 'logo.png'
logo: 'logo.png'
gallery:
  - image: 'screen1.png'
tags:
  projectStage: Proof of concept
  projectTypes:
    - AI/ML
  languages:
    - TypeScript
    - Python
  stacks_and_libraries:
    - Docker
    - Linux
    - ReactJS
    - YOLO
    - Tesseract
links:
  github:
    - 'https://github.com/Think-and-Dev/Whistleblower/'
team:
  - name: María Mercedes Vazzano
    linkedin: 'https://www.linkedin.com/in/mmvazzano/'
  - name: Juan Manuel Aragón Paz
    linkedin: 'https://www.linkedin.com/in/juanmanuelaragonpaz/'
  - name: Lucas Marc
    linkedin: 'https://www.linkedin.com/in/lucas-marc-54a36813/'
related:
  - techai
  - iris-classifier
  - deml
---

## About

"Whistleblower" seeks to construct an on-chain verifiable image recognition
system utilizing AI algorithms seamlessly operating within the Cartesi virtual
machine. The primary objective is to identify license plates of vehicles
violating traffic laws, with the identified information securely stored on the
blockchain to provide indisputable evidence of the infringement.

To encourage community engagement and knowledge sharing, we provide
comprehensive project documentation, open-source code, and pre-built wheels.
Leveraging Cartesi's capabilities, our aim is to address real-world challenges
with cutting-edge technology, ensuring accessibility and usability through
pre-built wheels for easy software installation within the community.

Our proof of concept (PoC) demonstrates the AI-based traffic violation
recognition system's capabilities within the Cartesi Machine. The PoC showcases
Cartesi's efficacy in executing a trained model utilizing the YOLO object
detection algorithm and character recognition systems, enabling real-time
license plate identification while excluding the resource-intensive model
training phase.

Additionally, we have developed a user-friendly interface seamlessly integrating
image input into the Cartesi Machine. This interface streamlines the process of
processing and storing images, along with their associated license plate
numbers, on the blockchain. Users can effortlessly access this information
through a simple GraphQL query to the list of alerts generated by our DApp,
exemplifying Cartesi's role in enhancing data accessibility and management.

Our commitment to transparent documentation empowers developers and enthusiasts
within the Cartesi community. By openly sharing our findings and experiences, we
aim to foster discussions and knowledge-sharing, highlighting Cartesi's
potential for diverse applications beyond traffic violation recognition.

## What's next

Looking ahead, our project roadmap includes key steps to further improve the
functionality and efficiency of our system:

- Improving character detection algorithms.
- Notification of violations to competent authorities and violators.
- Integration of smart contracts to manage fine payments and ensure a
  transparent record of transactions in the chain.
- Implementation of an interactive dispute resolution system to address outcome
  disputes.

Through these future developments, we intend to create a comprehensive and
efficient solution for the detection and management of traffic violations,
taking full advantage of Cartesi's innovative technology stack.
