---
title: p2pix
description:
  A trustless p2p solution for exchanging FIAT to ERC20 layer 2 tokens
logo: 'H0DalV9.png'
thumbnail: 'H0ybpUJ.png'
tags:
  projectStage: Hackathon Project
  event: ETH Sao Paulo
  winner: 1st Place
  technology:
    - Polygon
links:
  website:
    - 'https://taikai.network/ethbrasil/hackathons/ethereumsp22/projects/cl7w9hdqs65274301xcu283k1ml/idea'
    - 'https://www.figma.com/file/oIaOVWGTvicMysidMKxQgb/p2pix?node-id=23%3A2'
    - 'https://storage.googleapis.com/taikai-storage/others/a581b360-31d1-11ed-bf70-b547ae78af76p2pix%20[%20Ethereum%20SP%20hackathon%20]%2011_set.pptx'
  github:
    - 'https://github.com/doiim/p2pix'
team:
  - name: azsantosk
  - name: marcantonio
  - name: davidreno
  - name: hueso
  - name: vagner
  - name: nicksantos
---

## About p2pix

p2pix is an innovative and experimental hackathon project that aims to create a
trustless peer-to-peer (P2P) solution for exchanging fiat currency to ERC20
tokens on Layer 2 (L2) blockchain networks. By leveraging the power of
blockchain technology and
[Cartesi Rollups](https://docs.cartesi.io/cartesi-rollups/overview/), p2pix has
the potential to revolutionize the way people exchange value across borders and
markets.

### The Story of p2pix

p2pix was born out of the need to create a more efficient and secure way for
people to exchange fiat currency for digital assets, particularly in countries
where access to traditional crypto infrastructure is limited or constrained by
government regulations.
[LocalBitcoins](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LocalBitcoins), for example, once
played a significant role in providing access to cryptocurrency in regions such
as Venezuela, where it helped drive capital flow through informal P2P and OTC
methods. However, these transactions often face challenges, including friction,
security risks, and logistical overheads.

p2pix aims to overcome these challenges by developing a platform that allows
users to lock ERC20 tokens in a smart contract and set a fiat currency price to
be paid through the PIX payment system. When a buyer initiates a transaction to
the specified PIX key, the smart contract receives and releases funds based on a
transaction proof generated by the PIX system. This process eliminates the need
for a third-party escrow service, ensuring a more efficient and secure exchange.

## Technical Details

Designed with flexibility in mind, p2pix's solution can potentially be ported to
other payment systems, such as the upcoming FEDnow, legacy systems capable of
generating transaction proofs, and even Central Bank Digital Currencies (CBDCs)
when they become available for public use. The trustless nature of the platform
ensures that the only centralization point lies with the currency issuer, a risk
that cannot be mitigated.

One of the key technical challenges in implementing p2pix is obtaining signed
messages from trusted fiat authorities, such as central banks or financial
institutions, that can attest to successful fiat transfers. Ideally, these
entities should provide the payer with a signed message confirming the
transaction. This may become a reality with the new PIX APIs in Brazil or the
design of CBDCs.

To address this challenge, p2pix leverages the power of Cartesi Rollups, which
allows for the efficient reading and validation of signed JSON messages inside
the DApp. While JSON formats are not usually suitable for smart contracts, the
[Cartesi Virtual Machine](https://docs.cartesi.io/machine/intro/) can
efficiently handle such data. This capability is crucial, as trusted fiat
authorities might not provide confirmations in a naturally suited format for
smart contracts.

## Future Possibilities

As an experimental hackathon project with the potential to become a market-ready
product, p2pix is an exciting development in the world of decentralized finance.
By offering a trustless P2P solution for exchanging fiat to ERC20 tokens on L2,
p2pix has the potential to reshape the way people transact across borders,
particularly in regions with limited access to traditional crypto
infrastructure.

If successful, p2pix could pave the way for a new era of secure, efficient, and
transparent value exchange, ultimately empowering individuals and communities
worldwide to participate in the global economy without the limitations and risks
associated with traditional P2P and OTC methods.
